than South Africa supported a two-state
solution for decades along with the
freedom of Palestinians from Israeli
occupation the war on Gaza LED South
Africa to the international court of
justice in December it lodged a case at
the court accusing Israel of genocide
it's also a moral argument um you can
see the mass death the destruction of
people the destruction of property
destruction of all the means needed to
sustain
aive um we felt that we needed to take
action and of course of course our own
history played a role in that I think
the fact that we come from a colonial
apartate history and now you've got
settle colonialism having taken root
more or less the same time 1948 in
Palestine in the Court's view the last
month the court issued provisional
measures against Israel including that
it prevent genocide a court says it
notes a potential new assault on Rafa
would worsen a humanitarian nightmare
but it's declined issuing additional
measures saying Israel should comply
with its exist existing order but the
South African government says the
killing of more than 28,000 Palestinians
can't be justified and it's concerned
about Israel's continuing attacks in
southern Gaza when nearly 1.4 million
people fleeing the war are trapped while
South Africa says the court has
reaffirmed its view it says Israel is in
breach of the Court's orders and the
International Convention on genocide it
says we order the IDF to ensure that
they do not do anything that will
contravene the the measures in the Gen
convention that was a de facto ceasefire
order and we see that Israel has ignored
that order and the orders that calls for
unhindered access to humanitarian Aid
they've tried to reinterpret it in a way
that suits them but most International
lawyers have basically just said that is
it's an attempt and it's an attempt to
justify what they're doing South Africa
says it will use bodies like the United
Nations security Council to ensure the
Court's orders are implemented famida
Mala Al
Johannesburg make sure to subscribe to
our channel to get the latest news from
Al
jazer